Add a customization guide (#230)
withastro/starlight: docs/src/content/docs/guides/customization.mdx

Starlight provides sensible default styling and features, so you can get started quickly with no configuration needed.
When you want to start customizing the look and feel of your Starlight site, this guide has you covered.

## Add your logo

Adding a custom logo to the site header is a quick way to add your individual branding to a Starlight site.

1. Add your logo image file to the `src/assets/` directory:

   <FileTree>

   - src/
     - assets/
       - **my-logo.svg**
     - content/
   - astro.config.mjs

   </FileTree>

2. Add the path to your logo as Starlight’s `logo.src` option in `astro.config.mjs`:

   ```js
   // astro.config.mjs
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight';

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
         title: 'Docs With My Logo',
         logo: {
           src: '/src/assets/my-logo.svg',
         },
       }),
     ],
   });
   ```

By default, the logo will be displayed alongside your site’s `title`.
If your logo image already includes the site title, you can visually hide the title text by setting the `replacesTitle` option.

> The `title` text will still be included for screen readers, so that the header remains accessible.

Reviewer: Comma nit
```suggestion
The `title` text will still be included for screen readers so that the header remains accessible.
```

```js
starlight({
  title: 'Docs With My Logo',
  logo: {
    src: '/src/assets/my-logo.svg',
    replacesTitle: true,
  },
}),
```

### Light and dark logo variants

> You can display different versions of your logo in light and dark mode.

Reviewer: Considering we're referring to both themes (light and dark), "mode" should be changed to "modes" to be in agreement. The same way the heading is (light and dark variant**s**).
```suggestion
You can display different versions of your logo in light and dark modes.
```

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Frontmatter">

```md
---
# src/content/docs/example.md
title: Page with only H2s in the table of contents
tableOfContents:
  minHeadingLevel: 2
  maxHeadingLevel: 2
---
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Global config">

```js
// astro.config.mjs

defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      title: '',
      tableOfContents: { minHeadingLevel: 2, maxHeadingLevel: 2 },
    }),
  ],
});
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Disable the table of contents entirely by setting the `tableOfContents` option to `false`:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Frontmatter">

```md
---
# src/content/docs/example.md
title: Page without a table of contents
tableOfContents: false
---
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Global config">

```js
// astro.config.mjs

defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      title: 'Docs with table of contents disabled globally',
      tableOfContents: false,
    }),
  ],
});
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Social links

Starlight has built-in support for adding links to your social media accounts to the site header via the [`social`](/reference/configuration/#social) option in the Starlight integration.

> Currently Discord, GitHub, Mastodon, and Twitter are supported.

Reviewer: Comma Nit: Returns
```suggestion
Currently, Discord, GitHub, Mastodon, and Twitter are supported.
```

Reviewer: Better!

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      title: 'Docs With Social Links',
      social: {
        discord: 'https://astro.build/chat',
        github: 'https://github.com/withastro/starlight',
        mastodon: 'https://m.webtoo.ls/@astro',
        twitter: 'https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild',
      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Edit links

Starlight can display an “Edit page” link in each page’s footer.
This makes it easy for a reader to find the file to edit to improve your docs.
For open source projects in particular, this can help encourage contributions from your users.

To enable edit links, set [`editLink`](/reference/configuration/#editlink) in the Starlight integration config.
The value of `editLink.baseUrl` will be prepended to the path to the current page to form the full edit link.

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    starlight({
      title: 'Docs With Edit Links',
      editLink: {

>         baseUrl: 'https://github.com/withastro/starlight/edit/main/',

Author: Right, you may not be using `main` or you may be using GitLab or another hosting service etc. Also no guarantee your Starlight project is in the root of your repo: the actual `editLink.baseUrl` for the Starlight docs is `'https://github.com/withastro/starlight/edit/main/docs/'` for this reason.

>         baseUrl: 'https://github.com/withastro/starlight/edit/main/',

Reviewer 2: Could be as simple as:

> To enable edit links, set [`editLink.baseURL`](/reference/configuration/#editlink) to the full URL used to edit your repository in the Starlight integration config. The example below shows the configuration for editing the main branch of the Starlight repo on GitHub:

      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Custom CSS styles

> Customize the styles applied to your Starlight site by providing additional CSS files to apply, modifying or extending Starlight’s default styles.

Reviewer: I got a bit confused while reading this sentence, I believe that's because of the double "apply" in the same sentence and the drastic verb change from "apply" (Infinitive) to "modifying" (Present Continuous).

Maybe changing the wording along these lines could work?
```suggestion
Customize the styles applied to your Starlight site by providing additional CSS files to modify or extend Starlight’s default styles.
```

1. Add a CSS file to your `src/` directory.
   For example, you could override Starlight’s default blue accent hue to purple:

   ```css
   /* src/styles/custom.css */
   :root {
     --sl-hue-accent: 270;
   }
   ```

2. Add the path to your CSS file to Starlight’s `customCss` array in `astro.config.mjs`:

   ```js
   // astro.config.mjs
   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
   import starlight from '@astrojs/starlight';

   export default defineConfig({
     integrations: [
       starlight({
         title: 'Docs With Custom CSS',
         customCss: [
           // Path to your custom CSS file, starting with /
           '/src/styles/custom.css',
         ],
       }),
     ],
   });
   ```

## Custom fonts

By default, Starlight uses sans-serif fonts available on a user’s local device for all text.
This ensures documentation loads quickly in a font that is familiar to each user, without requiring extra bandwidth to download large font files.

> If you do need to add a custom font to your Starlight site, this guide will show you how.

Author: Well if the main aim is just styling Starlight’s output you won’t have any `.astro` files to use scoped style tags in — I think that might fall under the “Astro docs” remit.

> If you do need to add a custom font to your Starlight site, this guide will show you how.

Author: The “If you do need to…” phrasing was kind of intentionally trying to underline “Don’t do this unless you _need_ to”.

How do you feel about this?

```suggestion
If you do need to add a custom font to your Starlight site, you can set up fonts to use in custom CSS files or with any other [Astro styling technique](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/styling/).
```

> If you do need to add a custom font to your Starlight site, this guide will show you how.

Reviewer 2: I do like it better! I'm not sure that "if you do need to" is as strong a warning in American English as it is in British English, though.  ;) I actually did not get any kind of warning from this statement. So if it's a warning you want...

> Starlight's default fonts have been chosen to work best with documentation. Technical documents often require scannable, nested hierarchies of data in addition to longer-form paragraphs.  If you must add a custom font to your Starlight site, you can set up fonts to use in custom CSS files or with any other [Astro styling technique](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/styling/).

> If you do need to add a custom font to your Starlight site, this guide will show you how.

Author: Updated to say “must” instead if “do need to”!

Yes, it is HUGE for a thing we don’t really want to recommend 😓 But I think some people _will_ want it, so I’d rather document it (at the bottom of a page) rather than people thinking it’s not possible. Quite a few of the content on this page could probably be split off into a section of recipe pages probably. We’ll see what the future holds!

### Set up fonts

If you already have font files, follow the [local set-up guide](#set-up-local-font-files).
If you are considering using Google Fonts, we recommend following the [Fontsource set-up guide](#set-up-a-fontsource-font).

#### Set up local font files

1. Add your font files to a `src/fonts/` directory and create an empty `font-face.css` file:

   <FileTree>

   - src/
     - content/
     - fonts/
       - **CustomFont.woff2**
       - **font-face.css**
   - astro.config.mjs

   </FileTree>

2. Add an [`@font-face` declaration](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@font-face) for each of your fonts in `src/fonts/font-face.css`.
   Use a relative path to the font file in the `url()` function.

   ```css
   /* src/fonts/font-face.css */

   @font-face {
     font-family: 'Custom Font';
     /* Use a relative path to the local font file in `url()`. */
     src: url('./CustomFont.woff2') format('woff2');
     font-weight: normal;
     font-style: normal;
     font-display: swap;
   }
   ```

> 3. Add your `@font-face` declarations to Starlight’s `customCss` array in `astro.config.mjs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add the path to your `font-face.css` file to Starlight’s `customCss` array in `astro.config.mjs`:
```
You're not adding the declarations directly (as in, what you're typing into config here), so it's probably clearer to say "add the file path to the file with your declarations" (you can add "CSS file *containing the `@font-face declarations`* to Starlight's ..."  if you think that's helpful, but I think it suffices to say add the path in config.)

Author: Yes, I think this is better as-is!
